6648 add vmagent data ingestion (#6678)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/data-ingestion/Alloy.md

---
title: Grafana Alloy
weight: 1
sort: 1
menu:
  docs:
    identifier: "alloy"
    parent: "data-ingestion"
    weight: 1
aliases:
  - /data-ingestion/Grafana-Alloy.html
  - /data-ingestion/grafana-alloy.html
  - /data-ingestion/Grafana-Agent.html
  - /data-ingestion/grafana-agent.html

---

> Grafana Alloy supports sending data via the Prometheus Remote Write Protocol and Open Telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Alloy supports sending data via the Prometheus Remote Write Protocol and OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP).
```

Author: fixed in latest commit

> Collecting metrics and forwarding them to VictoriaMetrics using Prometheus scraping and remote write is more straight forward, but using Open Telemetry enables more complex processing operations to occur before sending data to VictoriaMetrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collecting metrics and forwarding them to VictoriaMetrics using Prometheus scraping and remote write is more straight forward, but using OpenTelemetry enables more complex processing operations to occur before sending data to VictoriaMetrics.
```

Author: fixed in latest commit

> Collecting metrics and forwarding them to VictoriaMetrics using Prometheus scraping and remote write is more straight forward, but using OpenTelemetry enables more complex processing operations to occur before sending data to VictoriaMetrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Collecting metrics and forwarding them to VictoriaMetrics using Prometheus scraping and remote writing is more straightforward, but using OpenTelemetry enables more complex processing operations to occur before sending data to VictoriaMetrics.
```

Author: I added Grammarly to my editor and added the changes it suggested

> The Alloy configuration file can found in the following location depending on your platform

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Alloy configuration file can be found in the following location depending on your platform:
```

- Linux: `/etc/alloy/config.alloy`
- Windows: `%ProgramFiles%\GrafanaLabs\Alloy\config.alloy`
- MacOS: `$(brew --prefix)/etc/alloy/config.alloy`

> After the configuration has been updated Alloy will need to be reloaded or restarted for the configuration change to be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the configuration has been updated, Alloy must be reloaded or restarted for the change to be applied:
```

- Linux: `sudo systemctl reload alloy.service`

> - Windows: `Restart-Service Alloy` This can also be done from the GUI using task manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Windows: `Restart-Service Alloy`, this can also be done from the GUI using task manager
```

- MacOS: `brew services restart alloy`

> - Helm chart: changing the `alloy.configMap` in the alloy [helm values](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/alloy/main/operations/helm/charts/alloy/values.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Helm chart: changing the `alloy.configMap` in the Alloy [helm values](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/alloy/main/operations/helm/charts/alloy/values.yaml)
```

> In Any of the examples below you can add `insert/<tenant_id>/` to the URL path if you are sending metrics to vminsert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In any of the examples below, you can add `insert/<tenant_id>/` to the URL path if you are sending metrics to the [cluster version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/cluster-victoriametrics/#url-format) of VictoriaMetrics.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe one example would be enough, as this sentence already explains how to write into the cluster.

For Prometheus remote write this would change from

```
https://<victoriametrics_url>/prometheus/api/v1/write
```

to

```

> https://<victoriametrics_url>/insert/<tenant_id>/prometheus/api/v1/write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://<vminsert_url>/insert/<tenant_id>/prometheus/api/v1/write
```

Author: fixed in latest commit

```

For OpenTelemetry the endpoint would change from 

```

> https://<victoriametrics-addr>:<victoriametrics_port>/opentelemetry

Reviewer 2: why prev example doesn't have <victoriametrics_port>?

Author: I added `<victoriametrics_port>` to the previous example

```

to

```

> https://<victoriametrics_url>:<victoriametrics_port>/insert/<tenant_id>/opentelemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://<vminsert_url>:<vminsert_port>/insert/<tenant_id>/opentelemetry
```

Author: fixed in newest commit

```

> ## Collect Node Exporter data locally and send it to VictoriaMetrics without authentication

Reviewer 2: All the text above doesn't explain which exact setting needs to be changed in alloy config. The first mention of the `prometheus.remote_write` happens only in this section, which has a bit unrelated title for a reader to follow. At least I perceive it as something additional, like "here's what you need to do if you scrape Node Exporter".

Reviewer 2: I also think examples containing recommendations how to scrape something can be omitted. It is expected if someone uses alloy already, then they do the scraping already. 
So we can remove ` Collect Node Exporter ` or `Scrape Prometheus local Prometheus ` from titles and examples without losing useful info.

Author: To address this feedback I added a brief explanation of what needs to be added to alloy and that any prometheus scrape endpoint can be used we just used node exporter as an example.

> ## Collect Node Exporter data locally and send it to VictoriaMetrics without authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Collect Node Exporter data locally and send it to VictoriaMetrics

> ```

Reviewer 2: should this code section have a type? With type, the text-area gets Copy button which simplifies things for users

Author: Added `Alloy` type to examples on this page.

prometheus.exporter.unix "nodeexporter" {}

prometheus.scrape "nodeexporter" {
  targets = prometheus.exporter.unix.nodeexporter.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.victoriametrics.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "victoriametrics" {
  endpoint {
    url = "https://<victoriametrics-addr>/prometheus/api/v1/write"
  }
}
```

## Collect Node Exporter data locally and send it to VictoriaMetrics with basic authentication

This is same as the previous configuration but adds the `basic_auth` parameters

```
prometheus.exporter.unix "nodeexporter" {}

prometheus.scrape "nodeexporter" {
  targets = prometheus.exporter.unix.nodeexporter.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.victoriametrics.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "victoriametrics" {
  endpoint {

>     url = "https://<victoriametrics-addr>/prometheus/api/v1/write/api/v1/write"

Reviewer 2: looks like typo in URL

Author: removed duplicate `/apiv1/write`

    basic_auth {
      username = "<victoriametrics_user>"
      password = "<victoriametrics_password>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Collect Node Exporter data locally and send it to VictoriaMetrics with bearer authentication (token)

> This is same as the first config but adds the `authorization` parameter

Reviewer 2: there is no `authorization` param in config below
